HOW SERIOUS?
IT COULD INHIBIT HER BREATHING.
IF THE SWELLING GETS WORSE,
IF THERE WAS ANY TROUBLE.
I TOLD YOU TO NOTIFY ME
NOW, YOU SAY THIS HAS BEEN
GOING ON FOR DAYS?
DIDN'T DETECT THE SYMPTOMS
THE MONITORING EQUIPMENT
UNTIL THIS MORNING.
IT ISN'T CALIBRATED
FOR THIS TYPE OF PATIENT.
WELL?
SHE'S FIGHTING IT OFF.
FEVER'S DIMINISHED.
THAT'S GOOD NEWS...
FOR BOTH OF YOU.
INTRAVASCULAR PRESSURE
HAS STABILIZED.
BLOOD OXYGENATION IS GOOD.
SHE LOOKS SO INNOCENT.
TO FORGET WHAT SHE REPRESENTS.
IT'S ALMOST POSSIBLE
WANT TO DISTURB HER.
WE DON'T
[ SIGHS ]
NO.
♪ IT'S BEEN A LONG ROAD ♪
♪ GETTING FROM THERE TO HERE ♪
♪ IT'S BEEN A LONG TIME ♪
♪ BUT MY TIME IS FINALLY NEAR ♪
♪ AND I WILL SEE MY DREAM
COME ALIVE AT LAST ♪
♪ I WILL TOUCH THE SKY ♪
♪ AND THEY'RE NOT GONNA
HOLD ME DOWN NO MORE ♪
♪ NO, THEY'RE NOT GONNA
CHANGE MY MIND ♪
♪ 'CAUSE I'VE GOT FAITH ♪
♪ OF THE HEART ♪
♪ I'M GOING WHERE MY HEART
WILL TAKE ME ♪
♪ I'VE GOT FAITH TO BELIEVE ♪
♪ I CAN DO ANYTHING ♪
♪ I'VE GOT STRENGTH
OF THE SOUL ♪
♪ AND NO ONE'S GONNA BEND
OR BREAK ME ♪
♪ I CAN REACH ANY STAR ♪
♪ I'VE GOT FAITH ♪
♪ I'VE GOT, I'VE GOT,
I'VE GOT ♪
♪ I'VE GOT FAITH ♪
♪ FAITH OF THE HEART ♪
CAPTAIN'S STARLOG,
JANUARY 19, 2155.
ENTERPRISE HAS BEEN CALLED HOME
FOR WHAT COULD PROVE
TO BE A PIVOTAL MOMENT
IN HUMAN HISTORY.
A CATASTROPHIC WORLD WAR,
HAVING ENDURED
EARTH'S GOVERNMENTS
CAME TO THIS CITY
FOR THE PURPOSE OF CREATING
A JUST AND LASTING PEACE
AMONG NATIONS.
ASSEMBLED HERE AGAIN,
TODAY, WE HAVE
REPRESENTATIVES
OF NUMEROUS WORLDS,
AN UNPRECEDENTED ALLIANCE.
TO FORGE
WITH THIS COALITION
OF PLANETS,
OUR BONDS OF FRIENDSHIP,
WE SEEK TO STRENGTHEN
THAT NOW EXISTS AMONG US
RENDER PERMANENT THE PEACE
FOR THE ONGOING EXPLORATION
OF OUR GALAXY.
LET US DEDICATE OURSELVES
TO THESE WORTHY GOALS
CAN LOOK BACK UPON THIS MOMENT
SO THAT FUTURE GENERATIONS
WITH PRIDE AND ETERNAL
GRATITUDE. THANK YOU.
[ APPLAUSE ]
PEOPLE ARE WATCHING.
NOBODY KNOWS THAT
BETTER THAN HIM.
THAT'S AN ORDER.
CLAP LOUDER.
IT WAS A FINE SPEECH.
AH. I THOUGHT
JUST MISSING A FEW NAMES.
THIS WAS ALL HIS IDEA.
YOU'D THINK
WHO GETS CREDIT.
IT'S NOT ABOUT
HE COULD HAVE AT LEAST
MENTIONED ENTERPRISE.
WHO DOES HE THINK
GOT THE ANDORIANS
AND TELLARITES TALKING?
WILL REFLECT OUR CONTRIBUTION.
I'M SURE HISTORY
NOT IF HE'S WRITING IT.
THAT'S ENOUGH.
[ INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS ]
I HOPE I DIDN'T EMBARRASS
MYSELF TOO MUCH.
FAR FROM IT, MINISTER.
CALL ME NATHAN.
I WANT TO THANK YOU AGAIN
FOR ATTENDING.
SEEMS TO PUT EVERYONE AT EASE.
HAVING ENTERPRISE HERE
PEOPLE FEEL COMFORTABLE
IN THE PRESENCE OF HEROES.
WHATEVER WE CAN DO
TO HELP.
WELL, IT CERTAINLY HELPS
CAN UNDERSTAND EACH OTHER.
THAT THE DELEGATES
WORK PERFECTLY, THANKS TO YOU.
THESE UNIVERSAL TRANSLATORS
WITH A FEW THINGS
I JUST UPDATED THEM
WE PICKED UP ON THE MISSION.
THEY'RE EXTREMELY PRECISE.
WHATEVER YOU DID,
TO THE TELLARITE AMBASSADOR,
THOUGH, WHEN I'M LISTENING
A LITTLE LESS PRECISE.
I WISH THEY WERE JUST
A FORMIDABLE GOAL.
YOU'VE SET
THE DRAFTING OF A CHARTER
IN SIX WEEKS?
I'VE ALWAYS BELIEVED
THAT FORMIDABLE GOALS
PRODUCE FORMIDABLE RESULTS.
I DECIDED TO STOP WAITING.
FOR WHAT?
YOU TO COME OVER
AND SAY HELLO.
YOU WERE BUSY WORKING.
WE NEVER HAD A PROBLEM MIXING
WORK AND PLEASURE.
SMILE.
TO SMILE FOR THE CAMERA.
I NEVER COULD GET YOU
HOW HAVE YOU BEEN, GANNET?
BUSY.
THERE HAVEN'T BEEN
MANY SLOW NEWS DAYS
SINCE THE XINDI ATTACK.
IN THE NEIGHBORHOOD A WHILE?
I HEAR YOU'RE GONNA BE
THE CONFERENCE IS OVER.
AT LEAST UNTIL
WE SHOULD GET TOGETHER.
IF WE WAIT ANOTHER FOUR YEARS,
TOO MUCH CATCHING UP TO DO.
WE'RE GONNA HAVE
CAN'T ARGUE WITH THAT.
AN ENTHUSIASTIC "YES."
I'LL PRETEND THAT WAS
BACK TO WORK.
DOES HAVE A POINT.
COMMANDER TUCKER
THE FOUNDATION FOR THIS EVENT.
ENTERPRISE LAID
PERHAPS IT SHOULD BE YOU
THEY'RE PHOTOGRAPHING.
SAMUELS LIKES THE SPOTLIGHT,
AND HE'S WELCOME TO IT.
THEY'RE GOING TO KILL HER.
[ GASPING ]
EXCUSE ME?
DON'T LET THEM.
[ GASPING ]
[ INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS ]
I'M SORRY.
-IT'S A PHASE-PISTOL WOUND.
-SHE'S GOING INTO SHOCK.
GET ME A MED KIT!
[ DOOR OPENS ]
FROM STARFLEET MEDICAL.
I JUST RECEIVED WORD
THE WOUND WAS TOO SEVERE.
SHE DIDN'T SURVIVE.
HAVE BEEN SELF-INFLICTED?
DO THEY THINK IT COULD
DO WE KNOW WHO SHE WAS?
THEY DIDN'T SAY.
SHE WAS A MEDICAL TECHNICIAN.
HER NAME WAS SUSAN KHOURI.
SOME EMOTIONAL TROUBLE.
SHE'D BEEN HAVING
TOOK A LEAVE FROM WORK
OVER A YEAR AGO.
WHO THE HAIR BELONGED TO?
ANY IDEA
I HAVE A VERY GOOD IDEA.
NO MORE THAN 6 MONTHS OLD.
IT WAS FROM A CHILD
I USED EVERY DNA IDENTIFICATION
PROTOCOL I'M AWARE OF.
A KLINGON PROCEDURE.
I EVEN USED
GO AHEAD.
IT CONTAINS VULCAN
AND HUMAN DNA.
I HAD THE COMPUTER SEARCH
IN THE STARFLEET DATABANK.
FOR ANY MATCHES
WHEN I GOT THE RESULTS,
I RAN THE SEARCH THREE MORE
TIMES, JUST TO BE CERTAIN.
AND?
ACCORDING TO EVERY ANALYSIS,
THIS CHILD IS THE OFFSPRING
AND COMMANDER T'POL.
OF COMMANDER TUCKER
[ DOOR CHIMES ]
COME IN.
WE GOT TO TALK ABOUT THIS.
TO TALK ABOUT SOMETHING
IT'S DIFFICULT
THAT DOESN'T MAKE SENSE.
PHLOX SAID DNA DOESN'T LIE.
NEITHER DO I.
I'VE NEVER BEEN PREGNANT,
TRIP.
THEN HOW DO YOU EXPLAIN
ALL OF THIS?
I CAN'T.
DO YOU BELIEVE ME?
YEAH.
THAT'S ALL THERE IS TO IT.
PHLOX MUST BE WRONG,
IF YOU'VE NEVER BEEN PREGNANT,
THEN YOU CAN'T HAVE A BABY.
SAID THAT THE CHILD WAS OURS,
TRIP, THE MOMENT PHLOX
I KNEW IT WAS TRUE.
-BUT YOU SAID YOU'D NEVER BEEN--
-I HAVEN'T.
THEN WHAT ARE YOU SAYING?
I CAN'T EXPLAIN HOW IT EXISTS,
BUT I KNOW IT DOES.
THERE'S A CHILD OUT THERE,
AND IT'S OURS.
HOW DO YOU KNOW THAT?
I'M VULCAN.
THE NEWS HASN'T SPREAD
FORTUNATELY,
TO THE GENERAL PUBLIC.
TO KEEP IT THAT WAY.
AND I'D LIKE
IF WE MADE AN ANNOUNCEMENT,
SOMEONE MIGHT COME FORWARD
WITH INFORMATION.
AN ANNOUNCEMENT OF THIS NATURE
COULD DERAIL THE CONFERENCE.
HOW?
MUCH TIME ON EARTH LATELY.
YOU HAVEN'T SPENT
AFTER THE XINDI ATTACK,
INCREASE IN XENOPHOBIA.
THERE WAS A DANGEROUS
WE GOT A TASTE OF IT.
IT DIED DOWN SOMEWHAT,
BUT NOT COMPLETELY.
THERE ARE STILL PEOPLE OUT THERE
WHO WANT US TO STAY
IN OUR LITTLE CORNER
OF THE GALAXY.
A VULCAN-HUMAN HYBRID
THE NEWS OF
COULD INFLAME THEM, GIVE THEM
SOMETHING TO RALLY AGAINST.
TALKING ABOUT
MINORITY.
MORE THAN A SMALL
I CAN'T BELIEVE WE'RE
AS I SAID, YOU'VE BEEN
AWAY FOR A WHILE.
MAYBE I JUST HAVE A LITTLE MORE
FAITH IN HUMANITY THAN YOU DO.
TO OPERATE ON FAITH.
CAN'T AFFORD
THAN A SIMPLE TRADE AGREEMENT.
THERE'S MORE AT STAKE HERE
YOU KNOW BETTER THAN ANYONE
YOU FOUGHT THE XINDI.
ON ALLIANCES WITH OTHER SPECIES.
HOW EARTH'S SURVIVAL DEPENDS
WATCHING OUR BACKS ANYMORE.
WE DON'T HAVE THE VULCANS
SOMEONE ELSE TO WATCH OUR BACKS.
THIS ISN'T ABOUT FINDING
THERE'S STRENGTH IN NUMBERS.
ALL I'M SAYING IS THAT
ALL RIGHT.
[ SIGHS ]
SOME WORD ON THE INVESTIGATION.
I WAS HOPING YOU'D HAVE
MY ENGINEER AND SCIENCE OFFICER
ARE EAGER TO GET SOME ANSWERS.
BUT I'VE HEARD NOTHING NEW.
OH, I'M SURE THEY ARE,
THERE'S GOT TO BE SOMETHING
WE CAN DO.
STARFLEET INVESTIGATORS ARE MORE
THAN CAPABLE OF HANDLING THIS.
I SUGGEST WE LET THEM
DO THEIR JOB.
THE MOMENT I HEAR SOMETHING.
I'LL NOTIFY YOU
YOUR COOPERATION.
I APPRECIATE
[ DOOR OPENS ]
[ BEEPS ]
-IT'S CAPTAIN ARCHER.
-Reed.
I WANT YOU TO TALK
TO AN OLD FRIEND.
THE LAST TIME WE SPOKE,
YOU ASKED ME TO NEVER
CONTACT YOU AGAIN.
I CONTACTED YOU.
SUSAN KHOURI.
AN UNDERSTANDING.
-FIRST, WE NEED
-ABOUT WHAT?
YOU'RE BACK IN THE GAME.
THAT BY SPEAKING TO ME,
-SIMPLE AS THAT.
-WHO WAS SHE?
AN EMOTIONALLY TROUBLED NURSE.
SHE WAS MORE THAN JUST
OF AN UNDERGROUND ISOLATIONIST
MOVEMENT -- TERRA PRIME.
SHE WAS A MEMBER
THEY WANT TO STOP ALL CONTACT
I'VE HEARD OF THEM.
WITH ALIEN SPECIES.
THEY BELIEVE IT'S CORRUPTING
OUR WAY OF LIFE.
WHEN ENTERPRISE WAS LAUNCHED.
THEY MADE A LOT OF NOISE
FOLLOWING THE XINDI ATTACK.
THEY HAD A RESURGENCE
WE THINK KHOURI WAS TRYING
TO LEAVE THE MOVEMENT.
THAT'S WHY THEY KILLED HER?
SOMETHING TO DO WITH THE CHILD.
HER DEFECTION MAY HAVE HAD
I WAS GETTING TO THAT.
OF YOUR CREWMEN. YOU TELL ME.
THE CHILD BELONGS TO TWO
THEY CLAIM THEY KNOW
NOTHING ABOUT IT.
THAT DOESN'T SEEM LIKELY,
DOES IT?
I BELIEVE THEM.
I ADMIRE YOUR LOYALTY.
WE THINK TERRA PRIME
IS INVOLVED,
PLANNING SOMETHING.
THAT THEY'RE
YOU JUST DON'T KNOW WHAT?
WE SUSPECT IT HAS SOMETHING
TO DO WITH THE CHILD.
YOU'LL HAVE THE ANSWERS.
FIND IT,
YOU RECRUITED HER.
I NEEDED HER EXPERTISE.
I THOUGHT SHE WAS RELIABLE.
OBVIOUSLY YOU WERE MISTAKEN.
IF SHE'D TOLD THEM ANYTHING
TRULY DAMAGING, I THINK
WE'D KNOW IT BY NOW.
WHAT SHE TOLD THEM.
WE CAN'T BE SURE
ANYWAY, I'M MORE CONCERNED WITH
WHY SHE TURNED AWAY FROM US.
BECOME ATTACHED TO THE PATIENT.
I THINK THAT SHE MIGHT HAVE
SHE SPENT A GREAT DEAL OF TIME
CARING FOR HER.
-AND WHAT ABOUT YOU?
-ME?
YES. YOU'VE SPENT AS MUCH TIME
WITH THE CHILD AS SHE DID.
I FEEL NO DIFFERENTLY ABOUT IT
THAT I'VE TREATED.
THAN ANYONE ELSE
THIS ISN'T "ANYONE ELSE."
THIS IS AN ABOMINATION.
IT WILL BE TREATED AS SUCH.
AND WHEN THE TIME COMES,
I UNDERSTAND.
MISS THIS PLACE.
WELL, I'M GONNA
THE SIMPLICITY.
THERE'S NO MIDDLE GROUND HERE.
AND I CAN SEE THE EARTH.
ON YOUR WAY OUT.
SEND IN GREAVES
YES, SIR.
I GAVE THE MEN
YOUR MESSAGE.
AT A MOMENT'S NOTICE.
WE'LL BE READY
TELL THEM I APPRECIATE
THEIR HARD WORK.
-THERE'S ONE OTHER THING.
-THEY ALREADY KNOW.
A LOOSE END THAT NEEDS TYING UP.
PUT TOGETHER A GROUP, HAVE THEM
MEET ME AT THE THIRD JUNCTION,
SAY, ONE HOUR.
DONE.
[ DOOR OPENS ]
[ INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS ]
THE TELLARITES ARE PUSHING FOR
AN EMBARGO AGAINST THE ORIONS.
ATTACKING THEIR FREIGHTERS.
THEY CLAIM THEY'VE BEEN
WE'VE TRADED WITH THE ORIONS
FOR CENTURIES.
IT'S TELLARITE SLANDER.
WE WOULD HAVE KNOWN
OF THESE ATTACKS.
YOU HAVE TO APPRECIATE
THEIR POINT OF VIEW.
DEPRIVE US OF VALUABLE COMMERCE.
THE TELLARITES ONLY WANT TO
CORIDAN WILL NEVER AGREE
TO ANY TRADE SANCTIONS.
AMBASSADOR, CAPTAIN ARCHER.
AMBASSADOR.
I NEED TO CONTACT MY GOVERNMENT
ABOUT TODAY'S DEVELOPMENTS.
EXCUSE ME.
HOW CAN I HELP YOU?
[ SIGHING ]
I WANT EVERYTHING STARFLEET HAS
ON THE INVESTIGATION.
WHY COME TO ME?
BECAUSE THE CHIEF INVESTIGATOR
TURNED ME DOWN.
YOU CAN CHANGE HIS MIND.
I CAN'T DO THAT.
I'M SORRY.
WAS A MEMBER OF TERRA PRIME.
SUSAN KHOURI
IT'S EXTREMELY TROUBLING.
IF THAT'S TRUE,
AS SOMETHING ELSE WE LEARNED.
NOT AS TROUBLING
YOU WERE ONCE A MEMBER.
WELL INVESTIGATING ON YOUR OWN.
IT SEEMS YOU'RE DOING FAIRLY
YOU WANTED THIS KEPT QUIET.
THAT'S WHY
THERE WAS A NEED FOR SECRECY.
I'VE ALREADY EXPLAINED WHY
WHEN I JOINED TERRA PRIME.
I WAS VERY YOUNG
YOU WERE 18.
ANY QUESTIONABLE CHOICES
DIDN'T YOU MAKE
WHEN YOU WERE THAT AGE,
CAPTAIN?
IT WAS A STUPID MISTAKE.
I WAS A FOOL.
IN A FREIGHTER ACCIDENT,
MY FATHER HAD DIED
WHO HAPPENED TO BE DENOBULAN.
AND I BLAMED THE PILOT,
WE ALL HAVE OUR DEMONS.
I'VE EXORCISED MINE.
WHEN YOU WERE YOUNG, MINISTER.
I DON'T CARE WHAT YOU DID
I NEED YOUR HELP.
[ SCOFFS ]
I UNDERESTIMATED YOU.
I SUPPOSE I'M NOT
THE FIRST PERSON
TO MAKE THAT MISTAKE.
CASE FILE WITHIN THE HOUR.
YOU'LL HAVE YOUR
THANK YOU.
[ DOOR CHIMES ]
HMM. CAN'T DECIDE -- IF I LIKE
YOU BETTER IN UNIFORM OR NOT.
WHAT ARE YOU DOING HERE?
I'VE BEEN ASSIGNED TO DO
A STORY ON ENTERPRISE.
THAT GOES FASTER THAN LIGHT,
HM. THEY CAN BUILD A SHIP
YOU A DECENT-SIZED ROOM.
-BUT THEY CAN'T GIVE
-A STORY?
IT'S TOLD FROM THE PERSPECTIVE
OF THE CREW.
THE PERILS, LIFE IN SPACE.
IT'LL COVER THE MISSIONS,
SO, SHALL WE START
WITH A TOUR?
-I'VE GOT SOME WORK TO DO.
-YOU'RE NOT ON DUTY.
GANNET.
OKAY, SO...
[ SIGHS ]
I WASN'T ASSIGNED THE STORY.
MAYBE...
MAYBE I SUGGESTED THE IDEA
TO MY EDITOR.
ABOUT SPACE EXPLORATION?
HE KNOW HOW YOU FEEL
THAT IT'S THE "LAST VESTIGE
OF COLONIAL IMPULSE"?
FROM SIGNING ON TO THIS MISSION.
I ONLY SAID THAT TO KEEP YOU
FIND ANOTHER STORY TO DO.
IT'S DUE A WEEK FROM TODAY.
IT'S TOO LATE.
TO FIND ANOTHER SOURCE
FOR YOUR INFORMATION.
YOU'RE GONNA HAVE
WHY ARE YOU AVOIDING ME?
CAN YOU GIVE ME ONE REASON
WHY I SHOULDN'T AVOID YOU?
WE BOTH CALLED IT OFF.
IT WAS A MUTUAL DECISION.
YOU'VE CHANGED YOUR MIND.
AND IT LOOKS LIKE
I HAVEN'T DECIDED YET.
HONEST THING YOU'VE SAID.
THAT'S THE FIRST
BY GIVING ME THAT TOUR.
SO, REWARD ME
GOT A MINUTE?
CERTAINLY.
[ SIGHS ]
THIS BABY...
IF IT'S A BOY OR A GIRL?
CAN YOU TELL
IT'S A GIRL.
A GIRL.
PART HUMAN AND PART VULCAN.
IS IT OKAY? I MEAN,
ARE NOT ALL THAT DISSIMILAR.
VULCAN AND HUMAN PHYSIOLOGY
THERE'S NO REASON TO BELIEVE
FROM THE EVIDENCE I HAVE,
BUT PERFECTLY HEALTHY.
SHE'S ANYTHING
THAT'S GOOD TO HEAR.
TO KNOW SHE HAS YOUR EYES,
YOU'LL ALSO BE INTERESTED
AND T'POL'S EARS.
I-I-I STILL CAN'T BELIEVE IT.
I'M IN SOMETHING OF A QUANDARY
ABOUT IT MYSELF,
ESPECIALLY SINCE T'POL'S
NEVER BEEN PREGNANT.
SHE COULD HAVE GOTTEN PREGNANT
AND NOT TOLD ME ABOUT IT.
AH.
AND SHE HAD THE EMBRYO REMOVED,
ALSO WITHOUT YOUR KNOWLEDGE?
I BELIEVE YOU KNOW THE ANSWER
TO THAT THEORY, COMMANDER.
YEAH, I GUESS I DO.
WE'LL GET TO THE BOTTOM
OF THIS SOON ENOUGH.
UNTIL THEN, I SUGGEST YOU KEEP
ANY SUCH THEORIES TO YOURSELF.
THAT'S GOOD ADVICE.
YOU KNOW, MY FATHER
ALWAYS WANTED A GRANDDAUGHTER.
ABOUT IT CONSTANTLY.
HE BUGGED MY SISTER
IT SEEMS HE GOT HIS WISH.
[ CHUCKLES ]
WHEW.
[ AUDIENCE APPLAUDING ]
INCALCULABLE DEVASTATION,
IN THE SHADOW OF THIS
WE FIND OURSELVES FACING
A COLOSSAL CHALLENGE.
THERE'S AN ENTIRE WORLD
TO REBUILD.
NOT ONLY OUR CITIES AND HOMES,
BUT MANKIND ITSELF!
TIMIDITY AND SECOND-GUESSING.
NOW IS NOT THE TIME FOR
TO DOUBT OURSELVES.
WE CANNOT AFFORD
THE THIRD WORLD WAR
HAD JUST ENDED,
WAS BARELY 2 YEARS OLD.
AND THE CEASE-FIRE
UNLESS WE ACT DECISIVELY,
WE WILL PASS ON THE SCARS
OF MUTATION AND DECAY
TO FUTURE GENERATIONS.
-COLONEL GREEN.
HISTORY HAS MISUNDERSTOOD.
ONE OF THE MANY MEN
FOR THE SAKE OF OUR CHILDREN
AND OUR CHILDREN'S CHILDREN,
WE MUST REJECT THE IMPURE
AND CAST IT OUT!
[ CHEERS AND APPLAUSE ]
[ BEEPS ]
AND LEFT ME THIS FACILITY,
BEFORE MY FATHER DIED
TO BE AN HISTORIAN.
I WAS STUDYING
A VERY VERBAL CONFRONTATION
UNTIL I HAD
WITH A CERTAIN PROFESSOR
WHO CLAIMED THAT GREEN
THAN A GENOCIDAL MADMAN.
WAS NOTHING MORE
SOUNDS LIKE WE HAD
THE SAME PROFESSOR.
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS
GREEN EUTHANIZED
WITH RADIATION DAMAGE.
WHO WERE AFFLICTED
THEIR MILLIONS OF DESCENDANTS
WOULD HAVE ENDURED
HORRIBLE DISEASE,
HISTORY NEVER SAYS ANYTHING
YET HISTORY --
ABOUT THAT SUFFERING
THAT GREEN PREVENTED.
ON WHO WRITES THE HISTORY.
GUESS IT ALL DEPENDS
WITH ANY MORE ACCURACY.
IF I'LL BE REMEMBERED
MAKES ME WONDER
GOING TO BE MISUNDERSTOOD.
I DON'T THINK YOU'RE
CERTAIN I UNDERSTAND MYSELF.
REALLY? SOMETIMES I'M NOT
WE DID WHAT WE HAD TO DO,
NOT WHAT WE WANTED TO DO.
TOLD HIMSELF THE SAME THING.
I'M SURE GREEN
HE WAS RIGHT, AND SO ARE WE.
DANIEL, YOU ARE A...
WISE MAN.
MEDICAL REPORT ON THE PATIENT.
HER SYMPTOMS ARE GONE.
SHE'S 100%.
THAT'S WONDERFUL.
WONDERFUL. THANK YOU.
[ DOOR CLOSES ]
THAT WAS SOME SERIOUS FLYING,
THE WARP FIELDS ALIGNED.
TRYING TO KEEP
COLUMBIA WAS 50 METERS
ABOVE US.
ONE WRONG MOVE, AND WE WOULD
HAVE LOST COMMANDER TUCKER.
HOW DID YOU KEEP YOUR COOL?
WHEN I WAS STUDYING
TO BE A PILOT,
I MEMORIZED SOMETHING
CHUCK YEAGER SAID --
"I NEVER LET MYSELF BE AFRAID.
AND CONCENTRATE ON FLYING."
I JUST FOCUS ON THE DIALS
-THAT SIMPLE, HUH?
-MOST OF THE TIME,
SIMPLE WORKS BEST.
THESE ARE THE SHUTTLEPODS.
WHICH ONE DID YOU USE
TO PENETRATE THE SPHERE
IN THE EXPANSE?
SHUTTLEPOD 1.
YOU WANT TO SEE INSIDE?
IF IT'S OKAY.
OHH!
BEAUTIFUL LITTLE SHIP.
I ALWAYS THOUGHT SO.
THE SHUTTLEPODS LESS AND LESS.
UNFORTUNATELY, WE USE
WHY?
WE'RE GETTING MORE COMFORTABLE
WITH THE TRANSPORTER.
MAKES SENSE. GETS YOU THERE
IN A FEW SECONDS.
NO SKILL INVOLVED.
YEAH, BUT THERE'S
NOTHING TO FLY.
MM-HMM.
TO GET ATTACHED TO MACHINES.
I'VE ALWAYS HAD A TENDENCY
IT'S CRAZY, BUT EVERY TIME
WE USE THE TRANSPORTER,
I FEEL WE'RE KIND OF TURNING
OUR BACKS ON THESE GUYS.
YOU CAN'T MAKE A CHOICE WITHOUT
LEAVING SOMETHING BEHIND.
AT THAT CONFERENCE,
WHEN I SAW YOU
I STARTED THINKING
ABOUT THINGS,
DECISIONS I'VE MADE.
IS IT MY IMAGINATION,
OR ARE YOU ACTUALLY
OPENING UP TO ME?
-DON'T DO THAT.
-WHAT?
GET A LITTLE SERIOUS,
WHENEVER THINGS
TURN IT INTO A JOKE.
YOU ALWAYS
[ SIGHS ]
IT'S A BAD HABIT.
I HAVE A LOT OF THOSE.
HERE'S ANOTHER ONE.
WHEN I'M ATTRACTED TO SOMEONE,
I CAN'T HIDE IT FOR LONG.
YOU AND YOUR BAD HABITS.
THE AUTOPSY DATA CONFIRMS
WHAT WE ALREADY KNEW.
SUSAN KHOURI WAS KILLED
BY PHASE-PISTOL FIRE.
THE CASE FILE CONTAINS
IN THE WAY OF EVIDENCE.
VERY LITTLE ELSE
MOST OF IT'S OUT OF DATE.
SOME BIOGRAPHICAL
DATA ON KHOURI.
THEY DON'T EVEN KNOW WHERE SHE'D
BEEN LIVING FOR THE PAST YEAR.
OFF THE FACE OF THE EARTH.
IT'S LIKE SHE DROPPED
EXACTLY WHAT HAPPENED.
-YOU KNOW SOMETHING?
-THAT MAY BE
HER BLOOD HAD ELEVATED LEVELS
OF GROWTH HORMONE.
I RAN SOME MORE TESTS AND FOUND
TRACES OF MYOFIBRILIN.
FOR EXTENDED ZERO-G MISSIONS.
THAT'S WHAT THEY PRESCRIBE
OUTSIDE OF MILITARY EXERCISES,
IT'S HARDLY USED ANYMORE,
NOT SINCE THE INVENTION
OF ARTIFICIAL GRAVITY.
TO WORKERS IN REMOTE PLACES
IT IS STILL GIVEN
WHERE ARTIFICIAL GRAVITY
ISN'T PRACTICAL.
LIKE MINING COLONIES.
THE NEAREST ONE IS ORPHEUS,
ON THE MOON.
OF TERRA PRIME ACTIVITY.
THE MOON IS A HOTBED
I HAVE HEARD THAT
A FRIEND WHO WORKED ON ORPHEUS.
YOU KNOW, I THINK TRAVIS HAS
HE MIGHT BE ABLE TO GET
A COUPLE OF US INSIDE.
WE COULD PAY A LITTLE VISIT,
UNDERCOVER.
I WANT TO BE A PART
OF THAT VISIT.
I'D LIKE TO VOLUNTEER, AS WELL.
TO SEE WHAT HE CAN DO.
TELL TRAVIS
YES, SIR.
[ INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS ]
CAPTAIN'S STARLOG, SUPPLEMENTAL.
FROM TRAVIS'S CONTACT,
WITH HELP
HAVE BEEN PROCESSED
TRIP AND T'POL
INTO THE ORPHEUS
MINING FACILITY.
[ INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS ]
[ MACHINE WHIRRING ]
I'VE SEEN ALL THIS BEFORE.
WE'VE BEEN THROUGH HERE.
THIS IS THE SECOND TIME
WE STILL HAVE 20 MINUTES
BEFORE WE HAVE TO REPORT
TO THE FOREMAN.
MAYBE YOU DOWNLOADED
AN OUTDATED MAP.
THE MAP IS CORRECT.
READING IT WRONG.
MAYBE YOU'RE
WE CAN ASK FOR DIRECTIONS.
GIVE ME THAT.
WHAT THE PROBLEM IS.
I THINK I KNOW
-WE'RE LOST.
-WHAT?
-LET'S TRY THAT DIRECTION.
-ANY PARTICULAR REASON?
IT'S THE ONLY TUNNEL
I DON'T RECOGNIZE.
TRIP...
I THINK WE'RE GETTING THERE.
I KNOW YOU'RE NOT CONVINCED
I'VE TOLD YOU THE TRUTH
-WHAT DO YOU MEAN?
-ABOUT THE CHILD.
PREGNANT WITHOUT YOUR KNOWLEDGE.
YOU THINK I MIGHT HAVE GOTTEN
I NEVER SAID THAT.
I KNOW.
YOU'VE BEEN TALKING TO PHLOX.
NO. HAVE YOU?
YOU'RE VULCAN, ISN'T IT,
LOOK, IT'S BECAUSE
-THAT YOU KNOW ALL THIS?
-I BELIEVE SO.
OF THIS BOND WE'VE GOT.
I AM SICK AND TIRED
I DON'T PARTICULARLY
ENJOY IT, EITHER.
LISTEN, FOR THE LAST TIME,
AND FOR THE RECORD,
I DO BELIEVE YOU.
MORE FEELINGS -- WHAT?
AND IF YOU GET ANY
THERE IT IS.
COME ON, LET'S GO.
LEFT THE SHUTTLEPOD.
I'M GLAD WE FINALLY
I THOUGHT YOU LIKED SHUTTLEPODS.
I LIKE FLYING THEM.
LIKE WE WERE FLYING.
HMM. SURE FELT
I HAVE A RULE.
THEY HAVE TO BE IN BED WITH ME.
IF I'M IN BED WITH SOMEONE,
WHAT WAS THAT?
[ GRUNTS ]
AH.
YOU ARE NOT HERE.
ABOUT SOME FRIENDS OF MINE.
I'M JUST WORRIED
WANT TO TALK ABOUT IT?
I'M UNDER ORDERS NOT
TO TALK ABOUT IT.
YOU SHOULD TELL A REPORTER.
THAT'S THE LAST THING
LET'S CHANGE THE SUBJECT.
HOW COME YOU HAVEN'T
SETTLED DOWN?
I'M NEVER GONNA SETTLE DOWN.
IT DOESN'T MEAN I'M NOT GONNA
GET SERIOUS WITH SOMEONE...
IF THE RIGHT CIRCUMSTANCE
COMES ALONG.
THE RIGHT CIRCUMSTANCE?
AND WHAT CONSTITUTES
I'LL KNOW IT WHEN IT HAPPENS.
WHAT DID YOU MEAN EARLIER
ABOUT RECONSIDERING
SOME DECISIONS YOU'VE MADE?
MY WHOLE LIFE IN SPACE,
I'VE SPENT
GOING FROM ONE PLACE
TO THE NEXT.
I WAS WONDERING,
SEEING YOU,
MAYBE THE NEXT CHALLENGE,
AT LEAST FOR ME,
IS TO STAY IN ONE PLACE
FOR A WHILE.
-HOSHI.
-HMM?
FROM TRIP OR T'POL.
NO WORD YET
IS THERE ANYTHING
I CAN HELP WITH?
SIX OF THE UNIVERSAL TRANSLATORS
RIGELIAN WITH ANDORIAN.
STARTED CONFUSING
THERE'S A GLITCH SOMEWHERE,
BUT I CAN'T FIND IT.
CARRY ON.
[ INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS ]
FRESH OFF THE BOAT?
ONE OF THE S.K. MODELS.
THEY ONLY GIVE THEM
TO GRUBBERS.
I GUESS YOU FOUND ME OUT.
[ LAUGHS ]
JOSIAH.
TURNER.
TO THIS DUMP SITE?
WHAT BRINGS YOU
CHANGE OF SCENERY.
YEAH, THAT'S WHAT
I WAS AFTER, TOO,
THE LANDSCAPE I GOT SICK OF.
ONLY IT WASN'T
[ INDISTINCT CONVERSATIONS ]
AS MANY OF THEM UP HERE.
AT LEAST THERE AREN'T
SEEMS LIKE EVERYWHERE YOU GO,
TO BE AN ENDANGERED SPECIES.
HUMANS ARE GETTING
I KNOW WHAT YOU MEAN.
BAD ENOUGH YOU CAN'T
WALK DOWN THE STREET
WITHOUT SOME FREAK SHOW SCARING
THE HELL OUT OF YOUR KIDS.
MAKING TREATIES WITH THEM.
NOW THE GOVERNMENT'S
WHERE IT'S ALL GONNA END.
SOMETIMES I WONDER
IT'S GONNA END WITH HUMAN BEINGS
BECOMING SECOND-CLASS CITIZENS
ON THEIR OWN WORLD.
SOMEONE'S GOT TO MAKE A STAND.
THAT'S HOW I FEEL, TOO.
YEAH,
SOME OF US ARE MEETING
TONIGHT AT 2200.
LEVEL 7, JUNCTION 4.
WHAT WE HAVE TO SAY.
I THINK YOU'LL LIKE
I'LL -- I'LL TRY AND MAKE IT.
I'LL LOOK FOR YOU.
I'VE LEARNED SOMETHING.
ISN'T VERY FOND OF VULCANS.
ONE OF THE LOCALS
YOU WERE SAYING?
OF THE MEDICAL FACILITIES
WAS FOUND DEAD YESTERDAY.
A DOCTOR FROM ONE
-THEY THINK IT WAS A CAVE-IN.
-YOU'RE NOT BUYING IT?
HE WORKED AT THE SAME CLINIC
AS SUSAN KHOURI.
WHAT WE'RE DOING TONIGHT.
I THINK WE EACH KNOW
WIPED OUT BY ALIENS.
7 MILLION PEOPLE
-DID THE XINDI EVEN APOLOGIZE?
-NO!
EVER DEMAND AN APOLOGY?
-DID OUR GOVERNMENT
-NO!
AND WHERE ARE THE REPARATIONS
OF THOSE 7 MILLION?
FOR THE FAMILIES
AND NOW THOSE SAME LEADERS
WANT TO FORM A COALITION
WITH TELLARITES, ANDORIANS,
RIGELIANS, CORIDANITES,
AND VULCANS!
VULCANS, WHO NOT TOO LONG AGO
WORKING AT THE EARTH EMBASSY.
MASSACRED 45 HUMANS
THAT FUTURE GENERATIONS
NATHAN SAMUELS CLAIMS
WILL LOOK BACK ON THIS ERA
WITH PRIDE.
BUT IF THINGS KEEP GOING
THE WAY THEY'RE GOING,
ANY FUTURE GENERATIONS,
AT LEAST NOT HUMAN!
THERE WON'T BE
[ CROWD AGREEING ]
TO SIT BY AND LET THAT HAPPEN.
I LOVE HUMANITY TOO MUCH
[ ZIPPER OPENS ]
[ BEEPING ]
THAT THERE ARE AT LEAST
IT'S ESTIMATED
5,000 UNREGISTERED
ALIENS ON EARTH.
PUTS THAT FIGURE AT 10,000.
NOW, ANOTHER STUDY
OF OUR GOVERNMENT'S POLICY
IS THE DIRECT RESULT
THIS INSANITY
OF THAT POLICY -- STARFLEET!
AND THE ENFORCERS
[ CROWD SHOUTING ]
WE NEED TO SEND A MESSAGE
TO THE PEOPLE IN POWER.
AND THERE'S SOMEONE HERE TONIGHT
WHO IS GOING TO HELP US
DO JUST THAT.
COMMANDER TUCKER...
OF THE STARSHIP ENTERPRISE.
ABOUT LEAVING THE SHIP...
ALL THAT STUFF I SAID
IT'S OFF THE RECORD.
OF COURSE,
WHILE YOU'RE ON DUTY, YOU MIND
IF I STAY HERE AND WORK A BIT?
[ DOOR CHIMES ]
I NEED TO SPEAK TO GANNET.
SOMETHING WRONG?
COME WITH US.
-WHAT'S GOING ON?
-WHERE?
SHE'S NOT HERE TO DO A STORY
ON ENTERPRISE, TRAVIS.
FOR TERRA PRIME.
SHE IS A SPY
[ GASPING ]
-ARE YOU ALL RIGHT?
-I THINK SO.
-WHAT DID YOU DO TO HER?
-HEY, HEY.
NOT NEARLY ENOUGH.
IT'S NOT WORTH IT, ROMEO.
JULIET'S IN GOOD HANDS.
THE TWO STAR-CROSSED LOVERS.
WHETHER YOUR LITTLE DRAMA
I CAN'T HELP BUT WONDER
WILL END HAPPIER THAN THAT
FAMOUS DOUBLE-SUICIDE
IN THE MEDIEVAL TOMB.
-WHO THE HELL ARE YOU?
-JOHN FREDERICK PAXTON.
-I RUN THIS FACILITY.
-NOT FOR LONG.
YOU'RE RIGHT, THERE,
COMMANDER.
TO TAKE A TURN FOR THE WORSE.
MY MINING BUSINESS IS ABOUT
DANIEL, GET STARTED.
YOU'RE BEHIND THIS.
BEHIND THIS? NO.
AND PROUDLY, TOO.
I LEAD THIS,
YOUR CHILD IS SAFE AND SOUND,
BEFORE YOU ASK,
THROUGH THE NIGHT.
FINALLY SLEEPING
I FORGOT HOW MUCH TROUBLE
A NEWBORN CAN BE.
-I WANT TO SEE HER.
-NO.
STARFLEET BETTER GET USED
AND "NO" IS A WORD THAT
TO HEARING FROM NOW ON.
BECAUSE UP UNTIL TODAY, IT'S
ALWAYS BEEN "YES," HASN'T IT?
"YES, YES, GO RIGHT AHEAD,
ROAM THE STARS.
OF THE WHEREABOUTS OF EARTH.
POTENTIALLY HOSTILE SPECIES
"YES, INFORM
"YES, ENTRUST THE ENTIRE FUTURE
OF OUR WORLD
WHO DON'T EVEN FEEL LIKE WE DO.
"TO NON-HUMAN CREATURES
"YES, PROMOTE THE TOTAL
DEGRADATION OF MANKIND
ALIEN-HUMAN...RELATIONS."
BY ENCOURAGING
THAT ENDS HERE AND NOW.
WELL, "YES" IS A WORD
TO ITS RIGHTFUL OWNERS.
I AM RETURNING EARTH
I AM GIVING EARTH
BACK TO HUMANITY,
BACK TO HUMAN BEINGS.
IT'S WHAT I WAS BORN TO DO.
IT IS MY LIFE'S WORK.
NOT AN ALIEN, NOT A HUMAN --
AND THERE IS NO ONE --
FROM ACHIEVING IT.
THAT WILL STOP ME
MY FATHER DESIGNED
THIS FACILITY.
WAS UNPREDICTABLE BUSINESS.
HE KNEW THAT MINING
MINES TAP OUT.
VEINS DRY UP.
EVERYONE'S ABOARD, SIR.
GO TO LAUNCH MODE, DANIEL.
YOU'RE AN ENGINEER.
APPRECIATE THIS.
I THINK YOU'LL
[ RUMBLING ]
-TAKE A GOOD LONG LOOK.
-WHERE ARE WE GOING?
FOR YOU, THIS WILL BE LIKE
A WALK ACROSS THE STREET.
[ BEEPING ]
LOCK IT UP.
YOU BETTER HANG ON TO SOMETHING.
SHE GETS A LITTLE RUSTY
OUT OF THE GATE.
YOUR UNIVERSAL TRANSLATOR
YOU RECONFIGURED
ALL THE OTHER TRANSLATORS.
TO RECORD MESSAGES FROM
ON THE DELEGATES.
YOU WERE SPYING
AN I.D. PROTOCOL IN THE NETWORK.
YOU ACCIDENTALLY TRIGGERED
I TRACKED IT BACK
TO THE SOURCE.
YOU'RE TALKING ABOUT.
I DON'T KNOW WHAT
YOU SURE KNOW WHAT EVERYONE ELSE
WAS TALKING ABOUT.
MAYBE SHE WAS AFTER A STORY.
SHE WORKED FOR TERRA PRIME.
IT DOESN'T MEAN
THREE TRIPS TO THE LUNAR COLONY.
WE DID A BACKGROUND CHECK.
IN THE LAST MONTH, YOU MADE
IS THAT A CRIME?
YOU'RE DOING THERE.
DEPENDS ON WHAT
-I WAS ON ASSIGNMENT.
-FOR?
MY NEWS AGENCY.
YOUR EDITOR CLAIMS
HE NEVER SENT YOU.
IF I'M UNDER ARREST --
LOOK,
AT ORPHEUS MINING COMPLEX.
TWO OF MY CREWMEN ARE
-WE'VE LOST CONTACT WITH THEM.
-I DON'T KNOW ANYTHING
ABOUT YOUR --
ARE THEY IN DANGER?
I WANT TO SPEAK WITH COUNSEL.
NOW.
GET HER WHOEVER SHE WANTS.
TAKE HER TO THE BRIG.
[ DOOR OPENS ]
Bridge to Captain Archer.
I'M SORRY, TRAVIS.
ARCHER.
A large vessel is taking off
from the mining facility.
-Sir, sensors indicate
-CAN YOU IDENTIFY IT?
it is the mining facility.
-IT'S STARFLEET COMMAND.
WE'RE BEING HAILED.
-[ BEEPING ]
REACTOR STATUS?
IGNORE THEM.
-YOU'RE GOING TO WARP?
-READY.
-A 5-SECOND BURST.
-INSIDE THE SYSTEM?
IF WE DON'T FLY APART.
WE'LL BE LUCKY
I PLAN ON LUCK.
GO.
10 SECONDS.
[ metal clanking ]
PURSUIT COURSE, TRAVIS.
HAIL THEM.
AYE.
NO RESPONSE, SIR.
TELL STARFLEET COMMAND
WE'RE GOING AFTER THEM.
WE'RE IN MARS ORBIT.
ALL SYSTEMS FUNCTIONING.
THAT WAS A MAGNIFICENT PIECE
OF FLYING, DANIEL.
THAT'S YET TO COME.
IMPRESS ME AGAIN.
TAKING US DOWN.
LET'S SEE IT.
SLOWING OUR DESCENT.
TIE US IN.
IT'S OURS.
LET'S TAKE IN THE VIEW.
THIS IS WHERE IT ALL BEGINS.
JOSIAH.
-THEY'RE ON THE SURFACE.
-WHERE?
NEAR THE VERTERON ARRAY.
THEY'VE LANDED
IT'S USED TO REDIRECT COMETS.
-THEY'RE SENDING A SUBSPACE
MESSAGE ON ALL FREQUENCIES.
-[ BEEPING ]
JOHN FREDERICK PAXTON.
MY NAME IS
THE VERTERON ARRAY ON MARS.
I'VE JUST TAKEN OVER
I CAN NOW FIRE ON ANY SHIP
OR FACILITY IN THE SYSTEM.
[ BEEPING ]
HE'S TARGETED EARTH'S MOON.
OF USING THIS WEAPON AGAIN,
I HAVE NO INTENTION
NON-HUMAN IN OUR SYSTEM
PROVIDED THAT EVERY SINGLE
LEAVES IMMEDIATELY.
A NEW ERA IS AT HAND,
EXPOSE THE CONCEPT
AN ERA WHICH WILL
OF INTERSPECIES UNITY
AND VICIOUS LIE.
AS AN ABSOLUTE
AN ERA THAT WILL WITNESS
THE ADVENT
OF A HUMAN-CENTRIC
CONSCIOUSNESS
THAT WILL PLACE OUR WORLD
BEFORE ALL OTHERS.
MANKIND CASTS OFF THE SHACKLES
AS OF THIS MOMENT,
OF ALIEN INTERFERENCE,
AND NOW DETERMINES
ITS OWN FATE.
TERRA PRIME...FOREVER.